Kaylee
======

:slug: kaylee
:categories: Articles
:tags: programming, projects, Python, CoffeeScript, Kaylee
:date: 2012-08-28 12:00

:summary: I just returned from my summer vacation and can finally state: another summer is over. But wonderful summer it was! I finally graduated and got a Master's degree in computer science. I cycled a lot and upgraded my MTB skills. I read lot of fiction. And somewhere between work, sports reading and sleeping was **Kaylee**, a distributed and volunteer in-browser computing framework.


Kaylee is
---------
Kaylee is a Python and JavaScript framework for developing in-browser
distributed and volunteer computing applications that allows programmers
to concentrate on business logic by leaving all the computational nodes
handling to Kaylee.


Why?
----
Do you have a wast amount of data to be analyzed? Are you deciphering
a life-and-death matter e-mail? Do you have a smart algorithm to find
the question with the known "42" answer? Do you have computing resources
to do any of it? If the answer to the last question is "No! :(" then Kaylee
is the right solution.


With Kaylee you are able to distribute the computation between millions
of Internet users and they even don't have to know that! This is how it
works:

1. A user opens a link / enters a web site via a modern browser.
2. Kaylee is started in background.
3. The application and the data are downloaded from the server.
4. The application solves the given tasks.
5. The results are sent back to the server.
6. Getting and solving the tasks continues as long as the user stays on
   the page or there are no more tasks left.

All this happens via JavaScript code executed in a separate so-called
`Web Worker <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_worker>`_ thread. That's
how Kaylee does not interfere with the browser's main JavaScript loop
and the user interface is intact.

Documentation
-------------
The documentation is available right
`here <http://kaylee.znasibov.info/docs>`_.


Get it!
-------
The repository is located at http://github.com/basicwolf/kaylee


Release history
---------------


TODO: Kaylee v0.3 <kaylee_0_3>
